# Our tools
Senecajs.org contributors use a number of tools on a daily basis. Below we have provided
a brief overview of each tool we use and how we use it. For more specifc information on
contribution process please see our [contribution][] guide.

Please note that the org [Code of Conduct][] applies to all interactions, even ones that
do not happen on Github.

## Github
Github is our core tool. All Senecajs org repositories are hosted on Github. We use issues
extensively; it is our primary method of capturing work.

Each repo has a dedicated issue list. Anyone with a free Github account can create issues
on all repositories owned by the org. Issues can be about any of the following topics.

- General questions or help
- Bugs
- Ideas, improvement or quality suggestions
- Etc

Be mindful that it can take up to thirty-six hours for someone to get to your issue. We operate a loose
triage system were by bugs and other important issues are dealt with first.

For Code of Conduct violations we recommend you contact us directly so we can deal with the issue as
quickly as possible. Please see the [Code of Conduct][] for contact details.

- Find us on [Github][]

## Trello
We use Trello to plan work we are going to do. The core Senecajs team work in iterations of one
week and tend to break work down into blocks of about 5 days maximum.

Cards are generated by core contributors based on issues created on Github. Related issues
may be pooled together into a single card if it makes sense to do so.

We maintain a single Trello board with the following columns

- __Backlog:__ cards that are ready to be done by anyone
- __Doing:__ cards that are currently being worked on
- __Blocked:__ cards that need the attention of a core contributor
- __Done:__ cards that are done this week
- __Dated Iteration:__ previous iterations of completed cards

Anyone is free to take a card on Trello. Once a card is in the backlog it is open to any public
contributor regardless of their membership to the org. Cards flow from left to right on the
board. If anyone gets stuck on an issue they simply add it to the blocked column and pick another.
When cards become unblocked they are popped back into the backlog for the person to tackle again.

We will require you to have a free Trello user account if you wish to work on a card. This will
allow us to assign the card to you and mention you in card comments.

- Help us out on [Trello][]

## Gitter
Our primary means of real time communication. We use Gitter to answer questions, signal when
updates happen and generally shoot the breeze. We have a single channel for org chatter.

Gitter uses Github for authentication. You will need to have a free Github account in order chat
to us on Gitter.

The community is most active on Gitter and are a really friendly bunch. If you have any questions
please do not hesitate to post it on Gitter as you can be sure there will be some friendly
community member only to happy to help. Go Team!

- Talk to us on [Gitter][]




[Github]: https://github.com/senecajs
[Trello]: https://trello.com/senecajsorg
[Gitter]: https://gitter.im/senecajs/seneca
[Contribution]: ./contribution-guide.md
[Code of Conduct]: ./code-of-conduct.md
